# Ryan Paw's Data Science Portfolio
Welcome to my Data Science Portfolio! This repository contains an accumulation of my data science projects I completed for my academics, self learning, and hobby purposes. My projects consists of the following types: data analysis, machine learning, data audit reports, and database design projects. This portfolio contains the coding languages: Python, SAS, and R. For each project, my completed file is labeled as 'Paw_Assignment'. 

If you have any questions, liked what you saw, have any work opportunities, or just want to chat feel free to reach out to me at: paw.ryan@gmail.com. 

*Note: Data used in the projects is for demonstration purposes only*

## Data Analysis Projects 

### Python
- [Diamond Characteristics](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Diamond%20Characteristics/General%20Linear%20Model%20(GLM)%20and%20Linear%20Model): A Generalized Linear Model (GLM) and a linear model was compared to understand which model performs better at investigating the association of diamond price after controlling for carat.
- [Vehicle Characteristics](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Vehicle%20Characteristics): 428 vehicles were investigated to create a bi-variate and a multiple regression model to understand how other vehicle characteristics affect miles per gallon (MPG).
- [Boston House Price Prediction](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Boston%20House%20Price%20Prediction): A linear and robust regression model was created to predict the median value of homes in the Boston area. 
- [Berkeley Guidance Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Berkeley%20Guidance%20Study): A multiple regression model was created to explain a longitudinal study of children in Berkeley, CA. R-squared, ANOVA, and F-test was computed to assess performance. 
- [Survey of Labor and Income Dynamics (SLID)](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Survey%20of%20Labour%20and%20Income%20Dynamics%20(SLID)): A regression model was created to understand the wage dynamics in Canada. ANOVA was used to describe the overall performance. 
- [Heart Disease Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Heart%20Disease%20Study): An analysis to identify trends in heart data to predict certain cardiovascular events or find any clear indications of heart health.
- [United Nations Study - Fertility](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/United%20Nations%20Study%20-%20Fertility): The data was collected from a 2011 United Nations study. A multiple regression model was created to explain the dependence of fertility on ppgdp.

*Skills: Pandas, NumPy, sklearn, matplotlib, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), bi-linear regression, multiple regression, t-test, Generalized Linear Model (GLM)*

### SAS
- [2018 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS)](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/2018%20Behavioral%20Risk%20Factor%20Surveillance%20System%20(BRFSS)): This BRFSS dataset is by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and included 360,665 participants. The purpose for this analysis was to assess if the generational age group that people are born in have a relationship with increased levels of poor mental health, after controlling sex, race, and income. The results show there is a relationship between generational age group and poor mental health. As generational age groups become more current, it is more likely that poor mental health is present. 
- [2010 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS)](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/2010%20Behavioral%20Risk%20Factor%20Surveillance%20System%20(BRFSS)): This BRFSS dataset is by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and included 413,748 participants. The objective of this analysis is to investigate the association between diabetes and BMI after controlling for exercise, age, gender, education, and general health. The outcome variable is diabetes and the variable of interest (exposure) is BMI. The analysis was broken down into 3 parts - developing a null hypothesis, creating a logistic regression model, and interpreting the results using comparative analysis of estimated effects.
- AnyState Veterans of Foreign Wars ([Analysis1](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/AnyState%20Veterans%20of%20Foreign%20Wars/Analysis1))([Analysis2](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/AnyState%20Veterans%20of%20Foreign%20Wars/Analysis2)): To improve the effectiveness of AnyState's solicitation campaigns, a predictive model was built and scored their marketing database. 2 different analyses were conducted.
- [Employee Voluntary Attrition](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Employee%20Voluntary%20Attrition/Analysis): A predictive model of employee voluntary attrition was built and tested. The objective was to use a model to find current employees who might be thinking of leaving, so proactive steps can be taken to retain them. 
- [Undergraduate Admittance Status Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Undergraduate%20Admittance%20Status%20Study): An analysis on the admittance status of 400 undergraduates to a graduate program at a select postgraduate institution. The objective was to determine an overall association between admittance status (outcome) and the rank of the undergraduate school (exposure). Multiple statistical tests, such as Pearson chi-squared and Hosmer-Lemeshow, were used to test the model.  
- [Cardiovascular Disease Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Cardiovascular%20Disease%20Study): The dataset contains 1,000 patients and their diagnosis for cardiovascular disease. This analysis demonstrates how to test and identify confounding variables.
- [Anxiety Factors Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Anxiety%20Factors%20Study): Confirmatory Factor Analysis (CFA) will be used to measure four factors of test anxiety. CFA tests how well the measured variables represent the number of constructs (or factors). We will assess if the model is a good fit for the data, and how well the proposed model captures the covariance between all the items.

*Skills: Pearson chi-squared statistic, null hypothesis testing, odds ratio, logistic regression, adjusted/unadjusted probability, confidence intervals, contingency table analysis, log likelihood/AIC, Hosmer-Lemeshow (HL) test, Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistics, confounding variables, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA)*

### R
- Graduate Admissions ([Analysis1](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Graduate%20Admissions/Analysis1))([Analysis2](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Graduate%20Admissions/Analysis2)): Exploratory data analysis to predict a student's application status for a Master's program using the general linear model (GLM) and multiple linear regression (MLR). The predicted output gives students a fair idea about their chances for a particular university. 2 different analyses were conducted. Analysis1 created a linear regression model. Analysis2 created a multiple regression model. 
- [Student Enrollment](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Student%20Enrollment): An analysis and visualizations to predict student enrollment at National University (NU) by estimating the population mean.  
- [Breast Cancer Wisconsin Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Breast%20Cancer%20Wisconsin%20-%20R): An exploratory data analysis to predict a fine needle aspirate (FNA) of a breast mass using a linear model. 
- [IBM HR Analytics Employee Attrition & Performance](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/IBM%20HR%20Analytics%20Employee%20Attrition%20%26%20Performance%20-%20R): An analysis report to uncover factors that lead to employee attrition and explore important questions, such as ‘show me a breakdown of distance from home by job role and attrition’ or ‘compare average monthly income by education and attrition’.
- [New York City Airbnb Open Data](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/New%20York%20City%20Airbnb%20Open%20Data): An exploratory data analysis using regression methods on Airbnb listing activity in New York City, NY in 2019.
- [Student Alcohol Consumption](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Student%20Alcohol%20Consumption): An analysis report for a client to understand the leading causes of student absences in math classes. The client hypothesizes that students who are in a romantic relationship (yes or no) will tend to have more absences. An explanatory model will be used to test this research question.

*Skills: mosaic, dplyr, supernova, ggplot2, lsr, Analysis of Variance (ANOVA), null hypothesis testing, linear regression, confidence interval interpretations, standard error,  z-scores, data visualization*

## Machine Learning Projects
- [Defeating Fake News using NLP and Machine Learning Methods](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Defeating%20Fake%20News%20using%20NLP%20and%20Machine%20Learning%20Methods): In a digital age where people are connected through technology, our worldview is shaped by the information we see, read, and hear. The objective for this study was to create a predictive model that explores textual properties to classify news articles as fake or fact. The first model (Model 1) investigated only the news headline and the second model (Model 2) investigated the news headline and the body of the article as features. 
- [Breast Cancer Wisconsin Study](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Breast%20Cancer%20Wisconsin%20-%20Python): This dataset included breast cancer characteristics from a digitized image of a fine needle aspirate (FNA) of a breast mass. K-nearest neighbors (KNN), support vector machine (SVM), and random forest (RF) was trained, hypertuned, and tested to determine if it performs well at predicting malignant tumors.
- [IBM HR Analytics Employee Attrition & Performance](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/IBM%20HR%20Analytics%20Employee%20-%20Python): An analysis was conducted on employee attrition and performance data using machine learning and ensemble methods. The objective was to determine which model performs best at predicting employee attrition. The following methods were trained and tested: Decision tree, random forest, bagging, AdaBoost, AdaBoost+RandomForest, gradient boosting classifier, and XGBoost. 

*Skills: Sklearn, natural language processing (NLP), train-validate-test split, ensemble methods, GridSearchCV, term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF), stop word removal, tokenization, stemming*

## Dimensionality Reduction Projects
- [Diamond Characteristics](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Diamond%20Characteristics/Principal%20Component%20Analysis%20(PCA)): A principal component analysis (PCA), Generalized Linear Model (GLM), and linear model was created. PCA reduced the dimensionality of diamond characteristics, while keeping a high percentage of explained variance. A GLM and a linear model was compared to understand which model performs better at investigating the association of diamond price after controlling for carat.
- [Wine Characteristics Dataset](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Wine%20Characteristics%20Dataset): A principal component analysis (PCA) was conducted on a dataset related to wine characteristics. The objective was to reduce the dimensionality of the dataset to 4 components. 

*Skills: Principal component analysis (PCA), *

## Data Audit Reports
- [AnyState Veterans of Foreign Wars](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/AnyState%20Veterans%20of%20Foreign%20Wars/Data%20Audit%20Report): A data audit report was created for AnyState Veterans of Foreign Wars. To improve the effectiveness of AnyState's solicitation campaigns, a predictive model will be built and score their marketing database. This data audit report is the first step to audit the data to support this model building effort. 
- [Employee Voluntary Attrition](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Employee%20Voluntary%20Attrition/Data%20Audit%20Report): A data audit report was created for Fortune, Inc. The objective is to build a predictive model to find current employees who might be thinking of leaving, so proactive steps can be taken to retain them. This data audit report is the first step to audit the data to support the model.

*Skills: data auditing, regulatory compliance, quality assurance reporting*

## Database Design Projects
- [Deep Dish Data Pizza](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Deep%20Dish%20Data%20Pizza): A database design project to create an application to manage the pizza ordering process at Deep Dish Data Pizza.
- [Pasta Autentica](https://github.com/paw-ryan/DataScience-Portfolio/tree/main/Pasta%20Autentica): A database design proposal for two centralized operational databases and a data mart to be used by the Pasta Autentica restaurant chain. The first database would be to manage food inventory, and the second database would be to manage employee scheduling.

*Skills: SQL, conceptual and logical database design, entity-relationship diagram (ERD), normalization, data mart design, data warehouse design, extract-transform-load (ETL) procedures*
